Q1 2023 Update

Highlights
Profitability: 11.4% operating margin in Q1, $2.7B GAAP operating income in Q1, $2.5B GAAP net income in Q1, $2.9B non-GAAP net income1 in Q1
Cash: Operating cash flow of $2.5B, Free cash flow2 of $0.4B in Q1, $0.2B increase in our cash and investments3 in Q1 to $22.4B
Operations: Cybertruck factory tooling on track; producing Alpha versions, Model Y was the best-selling vehicle in Europe in Q1, Model Y was the best-selling vehicle in the US in Q1 (ex-pickups)
Summary: In the current macroeconomic environment, we see this year as a unique opportunity for Tesla.
As many carmakers are working through challenges with the unit economics of their EV programs, we aim to leverage our position as a cost leader.
We are focused on rapidly growing production, investments in autonomy and vehicle software, and remaining on track with our growth investments.
Our near-term pricing strategy considers a long-term view on per vehicle profitability given the potential lifetime value of a Tesla vehicle through autonomy supercharging, connectivity and service.
We expect that our product pricing will continue to evolve, upwards or downwards, depending on a number of factors.
Although we implemented price reductions on many vehicle models across regions in the first quarter, our operating margins reduced at a manageable rate.
We expect ongoing cost reduction of our vehicles, including improved production efficiency at our newest factories and lower logistics costs, and remain focused on operating leverage as we scale.
We are rapidly growing energy storage production capacity at our Megafactory in Lathrop and we recently announced a new Megafactory in Shanghai.
We are also continuing to execute on our product roadmap, including Cybertruck, our next generation vehicle platform, autonomy and other AI enabled products.
Our balance sheet and net income enable us to continue to make these capital expenditures in line with our future growth.
In this environment, we believe it makes sense to push forward to ensure we lay a proper foundation for the best possible future.
In Q1, we produced a record number of vehicles, thanks to ongoing ramps at our factories in Austin and Berlin.
We remain committed to reducing the percentage of vehicles delivered in the 3rd month and smoothing deliveries throughout the quarter, which will help to reduce cost per vehicle, while increasing in-transit inventory at the end of each quarter
US: California, Nevada and Texas: The Model Y was the best-selling non-pickup vehicle in the US in Q1. We showcased 4680 cell production at our March-2023 Investor Day; production rate continued to improve sequentially in Q1. Equipment installation for Cybertruck production at Gigafactory Texas continued in Q1 and remains on track.
Since our Shanghai factory has been successfully running near full capacity for several months, we do not expect meaningful increase of weekly production run rate.
We launched sales in Thailand, a new market supplied out of Shanghai.
Thus far, the reception has been very positive.
Giga Shanghai remains our main export hub.
The Model Y production line in Germany produced over 5,000 vehicles in a week towards the end of Q1.
In Q1-2023, Tesla Model Y became the best-selling vehicle, of any kind, in Europe (EU + EFTA + UK)*
Our growing fleet of FSD Beta users has an exponential impact on total FSD Beta miles driven – with over 150 million miles to date and counting.
This level of data collection is unprecedented in the industry.
Mass collection of diverse datasets is essential for AI-based approach – the only approach we believe can work for scalable autonomy.
In Q1, we enabled the latest FSD Beta software stack for highway driving
While our various vehicles provide different range, acceleration or vehicle size, we believe the Tesla software experience is the best-in-class across all vehicles.
Even the base Model 3 offers seamless integration of vehicle controls, safety and security features (sentry mode, dog mode) and a full suite of connectivity and entertainment features (Spotify, other music streaming services, video streaming, 4G, etc.), and ongoing software updates bring yet more functionality over time.
Recently, we launched home-grown Recruitment and Employee Health & Safety platforms as part of the broader Tesla OS ecosystem.
Producing electric vehicles profitably is a challenging endeavor.
It requires rethinking how vehicles are designed and produced from the ground up.
Our cost journey is nowhere near finished, which is why we recently announced transition to 48 Volt architecture for vehicle electronics (starting with Cybertruck), higher penetration of in-house designed controllers, cheaper, more scalable drive units and further innovations in the manufacturing process.
Cost reduction remains the main enabler of delivering on our mission.
Energy storage deployments increased by 360% YoY in Q1 to 3.9 GWh, the highest level of deployments we have achieved due to ongoing Megafactory ramp.
The ramp of our 40 GWh Megapack factory in Lathrop, California has been successful with still more room to reach full capacity.
This Megapack factory will be the first of many.
We recently announced our second 40 GWh Megafactory, this time in Shanghai, with construction starting later this year.
Solar deployments increased by 40% YoY in Q1 to 67 MW, but declined sequentially in the quarter, predominantly due to volatile weather and other factors.
In addition, the solar industry has been impacted by supply chain challenges.
Both revenue and gross profit from Services and Other reached an all-time high in Q1 2023.
Within this business division, growth of used vehicle sales remained strong YoY and had healthy margins.
Supercharging, while still a relatively small part of the business, continued to grow as we gradually open up the network to non-Tesla vehicles.
We are planning to grow production as quickly as possible in alignment with the 50% CAGR target we began guiding to in early 2021. In some years we may grow faster and some we may grow slower, depending on a number of factors.
For 2023, we expect to remain ahead of the long-term 50% CAGR with around 1.8 million cars for the year
We have sufficient liquidity to fund our product roadmap, long-term capacity expansion plans and other expenses.
Furthermore, we will manage the business such that we maintain a strong balance sheet during this uncertain period.
While we continue to execute on innovations to reduce the cost of manufacturing and operations, over time, we expect our hardware-related profits to be accompanied with an acceleration of software-related profits.
We continue to believe that our operating margin will remain among the highest in the industry.
Cybertruck remains on track to begin production later this year at Gigafactory Texas.
In addition, we continue to make progress on our next generation platform.